## Ruby bootstrap

So you're brave. Brave enough to venture into trying to build this monstrocity. The initial bootstrap, the one you're looking at right
now, is written in Ruby. Why Ruby? Why not? It has recent LLVM bindings, which are something we need, base types that I'd otherwise have
to implement myself, and all these goodies. It's a "get up off the ground quickly" language for me, and for Acute.

This code will no longer be used at some point in the future. When that happens, there will be LLVM IR in another dir under the main
bootstrap dir, which will be used instead. This IR will be pre-generated from this very bootstrap, or perhaps, the full vm itself. Either
way, the future bootstrap involves LLVM IR and not Ruby. I will however, leave the Ruby bootstrap, in all its wonderous glory, in the
tree forever and ever, amen. Think of it as a donation for those who may want to understand how one little language was initially
bootstrapped. Or a high level implementation of an IoVM. Either way, we'll leave it for science.

### Building

To build the Ruby bootstrap, we need to have installed, Ruby 1.9.2 (tested with -p180, other versions may work). We also need to have
LLVM 2.9 built with the shared library (compile with --enable-shared). Go ahead, do that first; I'll wait.

...

Next you'll want to install bundler if you haven't already, it can be installed by running:

    $ gem install bundler

Next, we ask bundler to install our dependencies:

    $ bundle install

That's it, you're almost done. The next part hasn't been written yet, since we're only at the phase when I write this where the object
model is being built up. The model is done, and tested, but no front-end exists yet. Stay tuned.
